The third very important effect is that the big data technologies were able to read many,
many format and text formats like texts CSV,
JSON, but not only that, binary formats.
I mean, if you have, I don't know,
if you have censored data and saved that as text, all those numbers.
I mean, this is going to take a ridiculous amount of space unnecessarily and
saving them in binary format like an arrow might be a better choice.
Then, you have Parquet.
This Parquet format is a columnar storage formats which is also,
you can load but only columns off disk in
memory without losing the whole row which is actually very nice
because that is something undreamt of except maybe in
those expensive MPP databases like Redshift
and Oracle Exadata and Teradata and these high end systems.
Finally, also we can work with GZ data or Zip data in compressed formats like Gzip and
Snappy which actually gives us also control on
the compression ratio versus the speed of decompression and so forth.
So we can work with many,
many formats for lots of useful use cases.
Not only that, we can also read these formats from
a file systems like the local file system,
the HDFS or S3.
Actually, in its initial incarnations,
the Hadoop ecosystem was not made to work with S3,
and now it's actually a very mainstream,
actually thing to do that.
I would say, also in like in other Cloud providers like Google Cloud and Azure,
you have the equivalence of S3 that are also supported.
Also, the data doesn't need to reside in file systems,
it can reside into databases.
So one can have a database, like,
one can load a DataFrame from from a JDBC connection or from
our SQL database like so by just specifying
a string and one is unaware of the source of that.
Whether it's JDBC or S3 or CSV,
at the end of the day, all of them are DataFrames.
Likewise, for NoSQL databases,
one can also connect to them and have
a dataframe which means we can also work was that in SQL.